Vaccinations are incredibly important for fighting disease. But an increasingly large group of people seem to believe that vaccinations put our health at risk. 
There are many reports on the internet of negative vaccination effects such as allergies, disabilities and even deaths. And it's true, vaccination can have side effects. 
How do vaccinations work and how dangerous are they really? Your immune system is a complex army of billions of cells: Soldiers, information repositories and weapons factories. 
You are attacked countless times every day, but your immune soldiers usually take care of it on their own so that you don't even notice. 
If a serious infection occurs, the information cells collect knowledge about the attacker and activate our weapon factory. You know the weapons: Antibodies. 
They are like guided missiles built to fight a specific attacker. Unfortunately, this process takes several days. 
This gives the attacker enough time to inflict damage. Contrary to popular belief, what doesn't kill you doesn't make you stronger. 
Our body does not want to fight dangerous battles over and over again. Our immune system has therefore developed a tactic to become stronger over time. 
When we fight an enemy that is strong enough to activate our heavy weapons, the immune system automatically generates memory cells. They remain dormant in our body for years. 
Their only job is to remember. When an enemy attacks for the second time, the dormant cells wake up, coordinate attacks and order the production of antibodies, all in a very short time. 
This is so fast and effective that many pathogens that we have defeated once will never make us ill again. We may even be immune forever. This is why young children, for example, are constantly ill. They have not yet formed enough memory cells. And we rely on this great, natural mechanism when we vaccinate. As great as memory cells are, getting them through an infection is unpleasant and potentially dangerous. Vaccines trick our bodies into creating memory cells and becoming immune to disease: They pretend to be a dangerous infection. For example, harmless pathogens can be injected. They are rendered harmless by killing or fragmenting them. Our immune system can cope with such vaccinations quite easily. Sometimes, however, the immune system needs to be challenged even more so that it produces even more memory cells. This can only be achieved with live vaccines. A resilient enemy is a greater challenge than a dead one. But that sounds like a terrible idea. What if the pathogen wins? To prevent this, we breed a weak cousin of the real pathogen in the laboratory. One that's just powerful enough to nerve the immune system and create memory cells. This is the basic principle of vaccinations. They provoke a natural reaction in our body that makes us immune to dangerous diseases. Some pathogens, such as the flu virus, mutate so frequently that we need a new vaccine every year. But most vaccinations protect us for years or even a lifetime. But wait a minute. Like everything in life, vaccinations have a downside: Side effects. What are they and what happens if your child is affected? It's difficult to directly compare the side effects of vaccinations with the effects of diseases. For example, hundreds of millions of people in the West have been vaccinated against measles. But there were only 83,000 cases of measles in Europe in 2018. With such disparate numbers, even minor side effects seem frightening when compared to the consequences of a disease we no longer even know about. Before the measles vaccine became available in 1963, virtually every child in the world contracted measles at some point. In the 1950s, that equated to around 135 million cases every year. But is measles really that dangerous in 2019? We are so far advanced in terms of medicine and technology. Should we risk the side effects of a vaccination? How about a thought experiment based on real figures? In an industrialized nation, in a parallel universe with good medical care, vaccination has been discontinued. Let's assume that 10,000,000 children are infected with measles there. What happens? 9,800,000 or 98% get a high fever and an unpleasant rash. Up to 800,000 of them, or 8%, suffer from dangerous diarrhea. 700,000 or 7% get a middle ear infection, which can lead to permanent hearing loss. 600,000 children, or 6%, get pneumonia, the most dangerous side effect of measles. It alone will kill 12,000 children. Up to 10,000 children or 0.1% will contract encephalitis. 2,500 children, 0.025%, will be infected with SSPE, a disease in which the measles virus remains in the child's brain and kills them a few years later. In total, therefore, around 2.5 million children will suffer the more severe effects of measles. Approximately 20,000 children will die from measles. But that's not all. The children who survive will have a severely damaged immune system that takes a long time to recover. They are therefore more susceptible to further illnesses. Apart from that, these children will almost certainly be really unwell for two weeks. Okay, but what about vaccinations? It's only fair to look at the consequences here too. So back to our thought experiment, but now let's vaccinate 10,000,000 children with the MMR vaccine. What happens now? After they are vaccinated, about 10% of our 10,000,000 children get a fever. 500,000, 5%, get a slight rash. Up to 100 or 0.001% may have a serious allergic reaction that needs to be treated. Up to 10 boys, or 0.0001%, may develop genital inflammation. And up to 10 children or 0.0001% may experience the worst side effect: Encephalitis. So if we vaccinate 10,000,000 children, a total of 120 of them will have more serious side effects. Thanks to good medical care in industrialized countries, almost all of them will survive well. And autism? The link between autism and vaccinations comes from a single source, which has since been refuted many times. You can find literature references and videos on this in the video description. In 2019, however, one thing is certain: vaccination does not cause autism. And what about deaths? It is actually very difficult to say whether even a single one of our 10 million vaccinated children would die. We have done a lot of research on this and spoken to many experts. Excluding self-assessments, we could only find a small handful of documented deaths, out of hundreds of millions of children who have received the MMR vaccine since 1971. Measles is many, many thousands of times more dangerous to our children than the absolute worst case of vaccine side effects. You have to look with a huge magnifying glass for fatal side effects from vaccinations, and even then it's hard to find confirmed cases. Whereas measles deaths are very real and very easy to find. In 2017, 110,000 people worldwide died from measles alone. Statistically, 300 children die from measles today, one since this video started. You can compare vaccinations to seatbelts. Are there tragic accidents where someone is killed by their seatbelt? Yes, there are. But do you think that makes it safer not to buckle children in? But wait, what if your child is actually allergic? What if our facts don't apply to your specific situation? That's when you would have to become the biggest vaccination advocate of all. Because if you can't get your child vaccinated, only the community can protect them. This is called herd immunity and it's the only protection your unvaccinated child has. Herd immunity means that so many people are immune to a disease that the pathogen cannot spread, but dies before it can reach its victims. But to achieve this with measles, 95% of all people around you need to be vaccinated. The problem with the vaccination debate is that it is not being conducted fairly. While those in favor of vaccination argue with studies and statistics, the counter-arguments are usually a wild mixture of gut feelings, anecdotes and misinformation. And feelings are often immune to facts. We won't convince anyone by shouting down their concerns, but we can't hide from what such conspiracy theories do: They kill babies who are too young to be vaccinated. They kill healthy children who are simply unlucky. They bring serious diseases back from the brink of extinction. The biggest side effect of vaccinations is a reduction in the number of dead children. 
Vaccinations are one of our most powerful weapons in the fight against monsters that many of us have already forgotten. Let's make sure these monsters don't return.